hello everyone and welcome in this video
sponsored by eBay Motors I am very
stoked to be presenting my new project
core right underneath these covers I'm
sure you have no idea what it is and
we're gonna get into that in just a
moment but first I want to say something
now although I've been planning this for
many months at this point this obviously
feels like a very silly time to be like
hey wow
check out my new toy with all that is
going on in the world I'm fortunate
enough to be young and healthy and in
this position but that's certainly not
the case for everyone so as a small way
of giving back in these times I
personally am going to be donating five
thousand dollars split between four
different charities helping to fight
this coronavirus crisis and I am super
happy to say that eBay is going to be
fully matching that donation so a big
thanks to eBay for matching that
donation and of course a massive thank
you to all of the medical and essential
workers out there helping to do their
part
now I'm not great with medical advice
I'll leave that to the doctors but if
you want to talk about cars let's do
this so what could possibly be special
enough to replace my supercharged Honda
s2000 and at first and for many months I
started searching for an Acura NSX I
absolutely love the way they look they
seem like really incredible cars and
I've heard they're phenomenal to drive
so that seemed like a logical step up
from the s2000 so off to eBay Motors I
went in search of this NSX again eBay
Motors is the sponsor here they have a
new app for both buying and selling cars
the app makes it super easy to find what
you're looking for through various
filters and there was a good selection
of NSX is available while I was looking
to buy one of the things I really
appreciate is that they have a vehicle
protection plan which covers up to
$100,000 for vehicle non-delivery
missing title or significant undisclosed
defects so that you can bid with
confidence you can also sell your car
with app and they make it easy to upload
the specs of your car simply by taking a
photo of your license plate I ended up
putting in an offer on a red NSX we
negotiated back and forth a bit on the
app and then I decided to go check out
the car in person so here's where
everyone's going to decide that they
hate me so I wasn't test drove that NSX
I was super excited about it
kind of one of those meet your hero
moments where I was a little
disappointed after the test-drive so
it's a good car don't get me wrong this
shifting was absolutely incredible I
hear people say that NSX's are slow and
I was genuinely surprised by how quick
it was throughout the RPM range it was
very quick fun car however I was
disappointed by the steering which I was
surprised by and I was also disappointed
by the braking and so perhaps you know
the car just needed a little bit of love
it's thirty years old but it was a
fairly low mileage it was a two owner
car and it looked to be in really good
shape so I was a little disappointed in
how the steering and the braking felt so
instead of just kind of saying yes this
is the car I love based on my perception
before after driving and I thought you
know what it doesn't make me lineup as
gorgeous and incredible of a history
that this car has I think it's
incredible but it didn't make me line up
so I went back to the car that has left
me impressed time and time again ever
since the first time I drove it I'm sure
everyone knows what it is but here we
are with this cheesy reveal anyways
hopefully I'll do this with some sort of
grace ladies and gentlemen the 2016
Mazda mx-5 yes I have bought yet again
another underpowered four-cylinder car
not to worry it will be getting a
supercharger soon and this will be the
project car of the channel for the
foreseeable future and I'm totally
stoked on I absolutely love this thing I
imagine there probably aren't too many
people that are cross shopping a Miata
with an NSX but here we are and you can
pick up these club models which have
some suspension goodies and the limited
sub differential
low mileage between 15 and 20 grand all
day long so maybe you're thinking what
this can't be a dream car and I feel
like that's fair to say however I found
an interview from 2016 where I was asked
hey what's your dream car and my
response was an mx-5 a Shelby gt350 and
a Jaguar f-type and while I love all
three of those two of them are rather
bulky and I already have a car that's
super fast and super bulky so I wanted
something that was trimmed down a bit
and so this weighs about 1,400 pounds
less than the f-type
or the gt350 and what it lacks in
outright speed it makes up for in
playfulness much of that as a result of
its very low weight now when I sold my
s2000 I started looking for you know the
replacement vehicle and in doing so I
realized a big part of why I love the
s2000 so much in the first place it's
light it's nimble it's playful it has an
incredibly cool engine and so one of the
things I kind of learned through you
know modifying these different cars is
that if you want to make the car weigh
less you really have two options you can
strip out the interior stripout
anything that's excessive but then you
start to sacrifice the livability and
the daily drivability of that vehicle
you ruin all your modern amenities and
things like that or you can choose to go
the very expensive route and leave
everything as it is but replace it with
lighter materials like carbon fiber
titanium things like that so extremely
expensive and you get really minimal
gains to be honest so it all comes back
to the base car and if you can start
with a really light base car then you
don't have to worry about those weight
modifications which are so expensive if
you don't want to destroy the daily
drivability of that vehicle and that's
why I think this is such a great pick
because you start with a car that weighs
a little over 2,300 pounds
it's got modern safety features it's got
modern amenities and yet it weighs so
little so when you're looking to upgrade
the car you really don't have to think
about weight at all you can just go
towards those performance gains that you
really want and so that's part of why
one of the first things that I want to
do to this vehicle is supercharge it and
bring the wheel horsepower up to about
200 but honestly where this engine sits
isn't that bad so let's compare it to my
s2000 so this is a 2 liter engine and it
only makes a hundred fifty five
horsepower versus the s2000 which made
240 horsepower now this only revs to
6800 rpm versus the s2000 which revs all
the way to 9,000 rpm so looking at those
numbers alone this doesn't look all that
exciting but if you dive a little deeper
which of course we're going to do you
can see why it's actually a pretty
impressive little engine the white board
finds away so this is why the Miata at
low speeds is actually
curr than the s2000 so it only has 155
horsepower and 148 pound-feet of torque
versus the s2000 which has 240
horsepower and 153 pound-feet of torque
you can only see the torque is very
similar so if you take the me out his
weight divide it by its power you get
the weight to power ratio 15 pounds per
horsepower with 2332 pounds divided by
155 horsepower now if we look at the
s2000 engine up and till the Miatas peak
power which is at 6,000 rpm we can
understand why that is so horsepower is
a function of torque multiplied by rpm
divided by 5 - 5 - we take 153 torque
multiplied that by 6,000 that's the RPM
we're trying to analyze divided by five
two five two and we get 175 horsepower
now this is optimistically high because
we're using peak torque and in reality
at 6,000 rpm this torque is going to be
lower six thousands where the s2000
engine crosses over to VTEC and has a
significant jump in torque but it isn't
quite there yet at 6,000 rpm so this
number in reality is lower if we take
this number 175 horsepower and use the
s2000 s weight 2810 pounds divided by
175 we get 16 pounds per horsepower so
you can see up until the Mazdas peak
power at 6,000 rpm it's actually going
to be the quicker car has a better
power-to-weight ratio it's going to be
putting down more torque and once you
hit 6,000 rpm in that s2000 that's where
it really starts to make powered so
that's where it's going to take that
advantage and move quicker so you might
be thinking well the s2000 would just
then use more aggressive gearing and as
a result it would be quicker in all of
these scenarios but it doesn't the mx-5
actually has more aggressive gearing so
in fact at low speeds the mx-5 is the
quicker car so the mx-5 has a torque
curve that's much more oriented towards
daily driving versus the s2000 all of
that powers at the very top end which
isn't necessarily a bad thing it's an
extremely cool engine and I'm not trying
to downplay how special the s2000 is
because really I think the s2000 is a
significantly more special car than this
MX
but that doesn't change that I feel like
this is the better car and so you know
maybe you're thinking well you're just
saying that because now you own this and
not the s2000 but I send the same thing
in a comparison about the s2000 in 2016
now the final question and perhaps the
most important question which one of
these vehicles is the most fun to drive
and you know I have a clear pick here I
have a clear winner and it is the mx-5
as I mentioned in my mx-5 video best car
you can buy for less than $50,000 and
I'm still sticking with it I haven't
experienced the car under 50 grand it's
been more fun than the mx-5 this BRZ is
very close behind it though this BRZ has
good fun the mx-5 it's the lightest of
the group and it's the quickest of the
group at low speeds you can't beat that
now as much as I would love to be
driving the car for this video there is
an executive order in my state to quote
suspend activities that are not
necessary to sustain or protect life and
that pretty much encapsulates my entire
channel in one sentence so we'll do it
for my garage I was able to get a little
b-roll in as well as some testing before
things closed down so let's talk about
what I've already done and what I plan
to do with the car first up is the
obvious and that is maintenance it's a
good idea to change the oil on any used
car you've recently purchased so you
know it's starting out with fresh oil
from the beginning of your ownership
shout out and a big thanks to the team
at Mobil 1 they're a great partner to
the channel again always a good idea to
change out fluids when buying a used car
I plan on changing the dip else in as
well and overall you just want to check
the fluids are all at adequate levels as
this car only has about 33,000 miles on
it
many of the fluids are fine to leave
alone for now now my obsession with
tires is no secret and in my opinion it
is the most meaningful difference you
can make for the performance and safety
of your car so these are the stock
Bridgestone so ones and I swap them out
for Bridgestone re 71 ours they're
awfully adorable tires 205 over 45 are
17s and you may think wow those are
super narrow maybe get wider tires which
had me wondering for the cars wait are
they really that
for example my Tesla Model 3 performance
tires are 15% wider but the car weighs
75% more a Shelby GT 350s tires are
about 50% wider but the car also weighs
over 60% more so for the weight of the
car the tires width seems absolutely
fine now how much of an improvement do
these new tires provide well I ran 362
zero mile per hour runs on the same
strip of road and the stock soo ones
averaged 126 feet for stopping distance
that's not bad it's an average of 0.9 5
G's decelerating and it was about 55
degrees outside and sunny and these
tires are from 2016 so I then swap the
car over to the re 71 ours and the
average from 360 to 0 mile per hour
stops on that same strip of road was 112
feet so 14 feet less on average which
turns out to be over a full car length
and I wouldn't say conditions were ideal
for the re 71 ours ambient temperature
was about the same but there were
absolutely no break in miles put on the
tires and it was cloudy
instead of sunny so the road was likely
a bit cooler either way these had a
twelve point four percent improvement in
longitudinal grip and I imagine there's
also an improvement in lateral grip as
well as that's where these tires really
shine now if you've seen my video on
what's the best car mod you'll know that
a 10% improvement in grip can be as
meaningful for your lap times as
doubling your horsepower so it's an
incredible improvement to get 12% more
grip out of these tires now as far as
the wheels and brakes I plan on leaving
these as is I made sure to find one that
had the BBS and Brembo package to be
clear those Brembo calipers are just on
the front the rear brakes stay exactly
the same and I love these BBS wheels so
forged lightweight wheels and the
previous owner was kind enough to get a
little curb rash on three out of four of
them so I no longer have that stress
hanging over me now black is a pretty
boring color for sports car so why did I
get the car in this
and to be honest I feel like all cars
should be in fun colors and so the
reason why I got this in black is
because I'm going to get it wrapped now
I believe you know that Mazdas red is a
beautiful color and I love their red so
why not get that well I already have a
red car and I don't like the idea of two
of them when I could have more of a
variety of colors so I'm probably gonna
get this in yellow and I know many of
you will probably hate that and say you
know you're just trying to copy the
s2000 blah blah blah which is fine you
know I'll get a kick out of it either
way are someone in yellow and with the
black arrow kit the side sills the
window and you know the mirrors here it
actually looks really cool with that
black yellow combo which again I loved
on the s2000 another reason why I got
these wheels on this so I think it looks
really cool and that's probably the
color I will end up going with if you
don't like it that's totally fine you
should definitely buy a car in a color
that you like anyways if you are getting
your car wrapped black is a great color
to go with because you know once you pop
the hood once you pop the trunk things
like that you'll have that black
matching whatever the exterior color is
black pretty much goes with everything
so it'll still look good which is why I
went with this color now the 2019 mx-5
and the 2020 are better in pretty much
every way so why go with the 2016 well
with the 2019 and 2020 engine updates
there's a new updated ECU and it seems a
lot of aftermarket companies have
struggled to have the programming with
that updated ECU so for the 2016 and
2018 model years there's plenty of
aftermarket support for tuning this
engine and so if you do plan on tuning
the vehicle the 2016 to 2018 s look
pretty great if you're not going to
touch it I'd obviously recommend going
with the 2019 or 2020 which has more
power now I haven't touched on
specifications much and there's some
neat stuff here so this is a 2 liter
inline 4-cylinder and you can see it's
pushed way back and so actually the
front of that engine sits nearly dead
center on the center of these wheels
that helps give this car its 5347 front
rear weight distribution small bore long
stroke and a 13 to 1 compression ratio
this is designed to be super efficient
and it is when I pick the car up I drove
over a hundred miles and I was sitting
at 80 miles per hour and this thing was
getting 36 mpg so I have no doubt you
could actually get about
40 mpg in this thing depending on your
highway speed and the transmission is
truly beautiful not just because it
shifts well not just because the clutch
engagement is fantastic
but also because of the gearing I always
complain about gearing and the Miata has
done it right super aggressive gearing
first gear ends a little over 30 miles
per hour
second gear doesn't even make it to 60
miles per hour and that's kind of a
silly thing to do from a zero to sixty
standpoint so a lot of car companies
will make it to their car gets all the
way to 60 miles per hour and second gear
so they don't have that delayed shift
time in their zero to 60 the Miata says
nonsense which I absolutely love who
cares about the 0-60 time when your
actual acceleration that you actually
feel will be better and even still Motor
Trend tested the 2016 Club at five point
eight seconds zero to sixty with two
shifts and only 155 horsepower that's
pretty solid and the gearing never lets
up in fact sixth gear your top gear is
where you finally hit a 1 to 1 gear
ratio there are no overdrive gears
though it is a fairly tall final drive
ratio at two point eight six six it is
one of the most aggressively geared
modern manual transmissions and for that
I love it I mean just look at how much
fun I'm having to close I want to make a
point about cost because I'm sure plenty
will say that this thing is for too
cheap to be giving the legendary status
that I'm trying to imply that it has and
make no mistake when you look at the
individual components the engine the
drivetrain the body shape nothing alone
is all that special about this car it
doesn't have the visual appeal of a
McLaren nor the potency nor the approval
of teenagers but the overall package if
you can get over the fact that it is a
budget sports car this is one of the
most well executed machines on the road
today and that's why I picked it over in
NSX and that's why I'm stoked to have it
thank you all so much for watching thank
you to eBay Motors for sponsoring the
video of course check out the link in
the video description and download the
eBay Motors app if you guys have any
questions or comments feel free to leave
them below